=head1 NAME

ciconfig - Generate CI/CD configuration files from a centralized JSON file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<ciconfig>

B<REMOVE_UNUSED=1 ciconfig>

B<RUN_GIT=1 REMOVE_UNUSED=1 ciconfig>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<ciconfig> is a command-line tool for generating configuration files for multiple CI/CD platforms from a single JSON file, F<config/ci.json>.

It supports GitHub Actions, CircleCI, Drone CI, and Travis CI (deprecated), allowing you to manage your project's CI/CD settings in a declarative and centralized manner.

=head1 JSON FILE SYNTAX

The F<config/ci.json> file is a JSON object where keys are platform names (C<github>, C<circleci>, etc.) and an optional C<config> block. The values are objects containing the configuration for that platform.

=head2 Global Configuration

=over 4

=item C<config>

An object for global settings.

=over 8

=item C<default_branch>

Specifies the project's main branch name. The default is C<master>.

=back

=back

=head2 Command Objects

Many options (like C<build>, C<tests>) accept an array of commands. A command can be a simple B<string> (a shell command) or a B<JSON object> for more control.

  "tests": [
    "make test-all",
    {
      "command": "make deploy-staging",
      "branch": "staging"
    }
  ]

Command objects must have a C<command> key. The only other supported key is:

=over 8

=item C<branch>

Restricts the command to run only on the specified branch.

=back

=head1 PLATFORM: GITHUB ACTIONS

Key: C<github>

=head2 Options

=over 4

=item C<pmbp>

Creates a test matrix for multiple Perl versions using L<pmbp|https://github.com/pawjy/perl-setupenv>. The value is a string key to select a version set (e.g., C<"5.14+">, C<"latest">, C<1>).

=item C<macos>

Adds macOS to the test matrix. Can be a boolean or an object, e.g., C<{"latest_perl_only": true}>. If C<latest_perl_only> is true, macOS jobs for older Perl versions are marked as C<experimental> (allowed to fail).

=item C<env_matrix>

An object where keys are environment variable names and values are arrays of strings. This adds new dimensions to the test matrix.

=item C<matrix_allow_failure>

An array of objects specifying combinations in the matrix that are allowed to fail.

=item C<build>, C<tests>

Arrays of commands to run. C<tests> can also be an object to create parallel jobs.

=item C<merger>

On successful builds on C<staging> or C<nightly> branches, merges the branch into a target (default: C<master>). An object can specify C<{"into": "main"}> and C<{"needupdate": ["owner/repo"]}>, which triggers a C<repository_dispatch> event on the specified repositories.

=item C<needupdate>

An array of repository names (C<"owner/repo">) to which a C<needupdate> C<repository_dispatch> event will be sent on pushes to the default branch.

=item C<gaa>

Schedules a job to run C<make updatenightly> and push to the C<nightly> branch. Can be customized with C<{"build": [...]}> and C<{"deploy": [...]}> command arrays.

=item C<autobuild>

Schedules the main test workflow to run periodically. The value can be C<true> (or C<1>) or an object, e.g., C<{"per_day": 2}>.

=item C<updatebyhook>

Creates a workflow triggered by a C<needupdate> C<repository_dispatch> event, which runs C<make updatebyhook>.

=item C<pages>

Configures GitHub Pages deployment. It can be a boolean or an object. If C<tests> are defined, deployment happens only after they succeed.

=over 8

=item C<{"branch": "name"}>: Deploy from this branch (default: C<master>).
=item C<{"build_secrets": [...]}>: Secrets to expose to the `make build-github-pages` step.
=item C<{"after": true}>: Runs `make deployed-github-pages` after deployment.
=item C<{"after_secrets": [...]}>: Secrets for the `after` command.

=back

=item C<docker-build>, C<docker_push>

Used inside a C<build> or C<tests> step array to build or push a Docker image. e.g., C<{"docker_build": "my-image", "path": "./dir", "secrets": ["MY_SECRET"]}> or C<{"docker_push": "my-image", "branch": "main"}>.

=back

=head1 PLATFORM: CIRCLECI

Key: C<circleci>

=head2 Options

=over 4

=item C<build_generated_files>

If this key is present (even with an empty array), it enables a two-stage workflow where a C<build> job runs first, and its results are passed to subsequent C<test> and C<deploy> jobs via a workspace.

=item C<tests>

If C<build_generated_files> is active, C<tests> can be an object to define parallel test jobs.

=item C<deploy>, C<deploy_branch>, C<make_deploy_branches>

Define deployment steps. The behavior changes depending on whether C<build_generated_files> is active. For C<make_deploy_branches>, you can specify options in an object like C<{"name": "devel", "testless": true, "awscli": true}> to control execution order and dependencies.

=item C<heroku>

Provides detailed Heroku deployment configuration, with C<app_name>, C<prepare>, and C<pushed> hooks.

=item C<docker-build>

Builds and pushes Docker images. The push happens in a separate deploy job.

=item C<required_docker_images>

An array of image names to pull at the start of jobs.

=item C<parallel>

A number to set the parallelism for test jobs.

=item C<context>

Adds a context to deploy jobs for secret management.

=item C<tested_branches>

An array of branch names. If specified, workflows will only run on these branches.

=item C<params>

An array of strings that become pipeline parameters, exposed as environment variables.

=item C<gaa>, C<autobuild>

Schedules periodic jobs for auto-applying changes or running the full build/test/deploy workflow.

=item C<awscli>, C<merger>, C<pmbp>, C<empty>

Similar to other platforms but adapted for CircleCI's structure.

=back

=head1 PLATFORM: DRONE CI

Key: C<droneci>

=head2 Options

=over 4

=item C<tests>, C<deploy>, C<failed>, C<cleanup>

Define pipeline steps. Each can be an array of commands or a hash of named jobs. A job can be an object with keys like C<commands>, C<branch>, C<group>, C<optional>, C<failed> (commands on failure), and C<cleanup> (commands that always run).

=item C<docker>

Enables Docker-in-Docker support. An object C<{"nested": true}> creates a more complex setup where steps run inside a dedicated container.

=item C<artifacts>

Configures uploading artifacts to an S3 bucket, with options for C<s3_bucket>, C<s3_prefix>, C<web_prefix>, and C<sync_interval>.

=item C<notification>

Sends notifications on failure. Currently, only C<{"type": "ikachan"}> is supported.

=item C<merger>, C<pmbp>, C<make_deploy_branches>

Similar to other platforms but adapted for Drone CI.

=back

=head1 PLATFORM: TRAVIS CI (DEPRECATED)

Key: C<travisci>

=head2 Options

=over 4

=item C<pmbp>

Creates a test matrix. The C<latest> key for Perl versions results in C<5.32> in the generated config.

=item C<notifications>

If the value is C<"suika">, it configures notifications to a specific email and IRC channel.

=item C<merger>, C<empty>

Similar to other platforms.

=back

=head1 CONFIGURATION EXAMPLE

The following is a practical example for a Perl project on GitHub.

  {
    "config": {
      "default_branch": "main"
    },
    "github": {
      "pmbp": "5.14+",
      "macos": {
        "latest_perl_only": true
      },
      "build": [
        "make assets"
      ],
      "tests": {
        "unit": [ "make test-unit" ],
        "integration": [ "make test-integration" ]
      },
      "merger": {
        "into": "main",
        "needupdate": [ "my-org/another-repo" ]
      },
      "pages": {
        "branch": "main"
      }
    }
  }

This configuration defines a GitHub Actions workflow that:
=over
=item * Sets the project's main branch to C<main>.
=item * Creates a test matrix for Perl 5.14.2 and the latest stable Perl (resolved at runtime by the `perl-setupenv` action).
=item * Runs tests on both Linux (for all specified Perl versions) and macOS.
=item * On macOS, conserves resources by running tests only against the `latest` Perl version.
=item * Runs C<make assets> before any of the test jobs.
=item * Splits tests into two parallel jobs: C<unit> and C<integration>.
=item * After a successful test run on a C<staging> or C<nightly> branch, automatically merges it into the C<main> branch and triggers a C<repository_dispatch> event for `my-org/another-repo`.
=item * Deploys a static site to GitHub Pages whenever a push is made to the C<main> branch.
=back

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over 4

=item B<REMOVE_UNUSED>

If set, configuration files for platforms not in F<config/ci.json> are deleted.

=item B<RUN_GIT>

If set, `git add` and `git rm` are run for generated/deleted files.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba E<lt>wakaba@suikawiki.orgE<gt>

This documentation is generated and maintained by Gemini.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2018-2026 Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
